CHAPTER 1

# Why Most Businesses Struggle With Their Marketing

The million-dollar question. Why does your marketing suck? You'll likely get ten different answers if you talk to ten different people.

I've spoken to thousands of businesses throughout my 20 years of experience in the marketing industry. These businesses often say, “I tried Facebook ads, but they don't work.” “I've tried TikTok, but it doesn't work.” And the list goes on, and on, and on. But the truth is that all those things work, and they work well when executed properly. But there's so much more to this equation.

I could break down five to ten things your business could do or could do better, but there is one common denominator I frequently find: Lack of vision and strategy. For example, I co-founded and host an annual marketing summit in Appleton, Wisconsin. When I'm on stage, I like to ask the audience to raise their hands if they have a marketing strategy. I'm not kidding when I say that typically ten or fewer people out of 250 have their hands up. I'll then ask a follow-up question: keep your hand up if you have a strategy in document format. I'm often left counting those individuals on the other hand.

As I continue on stage, I like to ask additional rhetorical questions, like:

●        How do you measure success?

●        How do you know what you're supposed to be posting?

●        What metrics do you track and report?

●        How do you know what's working and what's not?

●        How do you justify increasing your ad budget by 20% or even 50%?

I could ask a dozen more questions, but you get the point. The easy answer to all these questions is that you don't or can't.  Let’s take it one step further and ask how many NFL or NBA teams operate without a game plan. The answer, of course, is none.

But to dig deeper, those game plans change as the opponent changes. They change if a player is injured, down by 15 points, or up by 25 points. Plans are designed to change. However the most successful teams put time into creating and implementing a plan.

When you have a plan, you have assignments, you have due dates, you have responsibilities, and you can measure success based on all those things. Without a game plan, measuring success or failure is subjective. Without a plan, I'd argue that there won't be much success to measure as your results will be limited at best, and you'll be left frustrated and feeling as though the efforts you did put forth was merely time wasted.

Without a plan, you are merely throwing things against the wall using a hope-and-pray philosophy which, as we all know, is highly ineffective and not practical.

Why Do Many People Dislike Marketing?

It's fair to say that many people do not like and certainly do not embrace change. Until the late 90s, business owners had limited marketing options such as radio, television, billboards and print. Today, however, we have a wide variety of digital marketing and digital advertising options; when I say variety, I mean hundreds of options. When presented with so many options, marketing in general can feel overwhelming and frustrating, especially considering this is an ever-changing industry. And at times, it's hard for professionals, including myself, to keep up with the trends, let alone post consistently.

A common trend I've observed is that individuals around the age of 50 tend to overspend on marketing and advertising, mirroring their consumption habits in media. Surprisingly, even in 2024, some people still regularly engage with traditional mediums like newspapers and televised programs. While they might have a presence on social media, their activity levels on these platforms may not match their engagement with traditional media. These individuals are often more accustomed and at ease with newspapers, radio, and television. Due to this familiarity, they feel a sense of predictability and security in their advertising expenditures. If a television station fails to persuade them to advertise, they might opt for alternatives like billboards, direct mail, or even refrain from advertising altogether.

But here’s my question, do you get any analytics or reports from these forms of advertising? Do you know how many people saw the ad or bought from you as a result? If you answered no, I would argue that you’re just throwing darts in the dark while simultaneously hoping and praying it works. Am I wrong? The unfortunate truth is most small businesses, especially start-ups cannot sustain that type of marketing.

Plenty of other people view marketing, specifically digital marketing, as a cost center. Why? There could be a lot of reasons. But, typically, it is because they see a high level of time invested with a low return on investment, i.e., leads and sales. A low ROI has much to do with \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.  (We’ll get to that in a minute.)

I've heard horror stories of small businesses hiring “fly by night” companies with little credibility. You know, those companies who call you out of the blue. They promise the moon, the stars, and the sky but deliver almost nothing after they've been paid.

I can understand why after an experience like that, you’ll likely have little trust in anyone selling a digital marketing service, let alone wanting to hire an agency. After that, it's expected business owners will go back to traditional means of marketing or give up. Others walk away from marketing because they've received a relatively unfair, unwarranted Google review, leaving them frustrated and confused. You could argue they're scared, so they turn off their reviews or delete their Facebook profile. I've even seen some businesses, more so in the B2B space, who do so well with referrals and incoming leads that they don't think they need to have social media outlets help them generate additional business. And let me tell you, those who tell me that they don't need or can't handle any more business are typically full of s\*\*\*.

But I've said before, and I'll repeat it: digital marketing works. And it works incredibly well when done correctly.

But if you’re unwilling to embrace digital marketing, you’ll likely become invisible.

What will happen if your customers and prospects don’t see you online or can't find you? Is being invisible really worth it? Can you run a successful business if you're scared of social media? I'd argue no. Some of these reasons may seem valid at the surface level, but they're nothing more than excuses.

So, does marketing get a bad rap because it’s a guessing game? Does it only work if you’re a professional or a business with a huge budget? Or has it not worked because of how you and your company approached it?