CHAPTER 5

# MICRO TACTICS

Micro tactics are a very granular part of the strategy. Some of these have a place in the list of ingredients. However, micro tactics are more like browning the beef before putting it into the chili pot. Those little things add flavor and make the final product even more delicious. Tactics are the things that fill up the bucket that help achieve a specific goal. These are often the little things that most forget or are unwilling to do because we’re allegedly too busy. But at scale, repeating these tactics consistently over a long period gets you from phase one to phase two, and eventually, phase two to phase three and beyond. Much like searing the meat before you drop it into the tomato sauce, it's non-negotiable, but often overlooked.

When discussing these micro tactics, I have a short list of essential things for you to consider. At the surface level, this will sound time-consuming, but it's really not, especially if you put this on your calendar once every other week. And as I look back, I wish I had practiced these micro tactics much sooner.

It should be noted that there is no space on the 1-page strategy template for micro tactics or as I call them best practices. You’re welcome to include these in your notes section or write them on the back. However, eventually I’d like these micro tactics to become a learned behavior and something that you do regularly. For the record, you don’t have to do any of these. But I will say that the more proactive you are, the more gasoline you’ll add to your fire.

Connect with 20 people per week: You'd be naive to think that thousands of people will randomly find and follow you and start engaging with your content. If that's your strategy, it will take a hundred years to reach 10,000 followers. So, much like the networking example I provided earlier, we have to be proactive about connecting with others just as we hope they connect with us. This is especially important if you're trying to build a personal brand.

If you’re willing to do this, go to LinkedIn and intentionally search for people who may be your prospects and those in a role where partnership or referrals could make sense. If you averaged 100 new connections monthly, you’d have 1,200 new connections in a year. It’s likely these are all prospective clients you could send DMs to, ask to attend your webinars, or invite to a virtual meeting, and that is just a tip of the iceberg when it comes to possibilities.

Message five to ten people a week: If you're a solopreneur, especially a coach or a consultant, you must connect with others and reach out to introduce yourself and build awareness for your business. Remember that sales in any form is very much relationship-based, so it's unlikely to assume people will buy from you if they don't know you. The more trust you can build, the more your audience will grow. You’ll find that over time, these connections can be a great source of referrals.

What’s worked for me is sending a brief introductory message to people I think are my ideal clients. That message might look like this.

Thank you for connecting with me. I'm excited to add you to my network.

I'm a digital marketing coach with over 20 years of experience. My big thing is I make marketing so easy it's fun again. So easy you'll have no excuses. If there is anything I can do, whether it be with marketing, referrals, or just making connections, please let me know.

I’d like to get to know more about you and your business. Here are a couple of questions I have for you.

1) What is your business?

2) What is one unique thing about you?

2) What is something that makes your business different?

Cheers.

Chris

This may not be the most effective message. However, it highlights what I do and the problem I solve. It’s also question provoking for those who may need to hire a marketing consultant. Furthermore, it shows I’m making an effort to get to know the other people without asking for a meeting or an opportunity to pitch. On Alignable and LinkedIn, I average around a 25% response rate which is solid and I occasionally modify the message. If the connection indicates a need for marketing, I can attempt to continue the conversation. I may send them resources to my podcast or content I’ve created that help educate and build trust. Eventually, I’ll ask that person if they want to hop on a virtual discovery call. But like anything, this approach does require an investment of time and effort.

Schedule one to two virtual meetings per week: I remember the first time I created a Calendly account. For those of you unfamiliar, this is a software used for people to schedule, prepare, and follow up on external meetings. It can automate communication with meeting participants. Also, It integrates with Google Calendar and even allows you to charge for your time. I started using Calendly to make it easier for prospective clients to book time with me. I put it on my LinkedIn profile and, over the next six weeks, saw zero people schedule time with me. I quickly realized that we are no longer in the “If you build it, they will come” era. I had to be proactive by connecting, messaging and engaging with others. I also had to have something of value I could offer in return for them booking time with me. Even if some of these weren't prospective clients, I was intentional about setting up time with others I thought could be valuable to my network, again that could be prospective clients, podcast guests, or even future referral partners.

Post in Group Pages: This is often deemed a spammy tactic, especially if you're posting and ghosting. Expanding outside of your traditional business page can be helpful, with the caveat that you should be active within these group pages or community pages. When I say active, you also engage with others and their content. More importantly, you're not posting content explicitly soliciting your company or its services. Bear in mind, this is not something that’s going to produce any sort of significant results.

Comment on five to ten posts per day: I've already expressed the importance of reciprocating engagement. However, I have yet to state that it should be authentic and meaningful. Much like your posting, don't comment just to comment with two or three words. If you engage, it should be intentional, thoughtful, and meaningful in almost all cases. I know what you're thinking; this sounds difficult and time-consuming. But again, it says as little as five minutes or less daily. If your bandwidth is minimal, you can start by doing this three times a week, and weekends count just the same. The beauty of doing this is that it exposes you and your profile to others who follow that person or that business. Over several months or even better yet, several years, you could be visible to millions of others. Remember, the opposite is being invisible.

Collect Emails: Among several things I wish I would have started doing years ago, collecting emails is one of them. Don't worry about sending emails. You can start doing that once you've built a database of at least 100 people.

To help eliminate any budgetary challenges, you can sign up for a free Constant Contact or MailChimp account. Within five minutes, you can collect emails in the footer of your website while you're sleeping. What I love about emails is that you own your audience 100%. Unlike social media channels, where you rent your audience, you can take your database wherever you go. If a social media platform someday disappears, your audience, the engagement, and all of the content will disappear with it. One of the other reasons I love building an email list is that you can guarantee at least 25% of these subscribers do not follow you on social media. Naturally, it allows you to connect with a whole new audience that may not see your Facebook posts. More on email marketing later.

Be Vulnerable: One thing to remember is that as you interact with other humans, and if all you're doing is posting about your products and services, it's tough to build and cultivate relationships. So, if you're looking to grow your engagement and build a network, it's crucial that you get in front of the camera and talk about your business, your why and even your struggles. Doing so makes you relatable; it brings a human element to your social media, which many giant brands struggle with. Remember, sales are very much relationship-based, so the more you can focus on being authentic and visible, the more interest you'll spark with your followers. We'll touch on this more in the next section of the book.

Conclusion

For some of you, this has been the easy part and for others this will be the most challenging part. However, the audit, the strategy, and the implementation are only three components out of at least four that are going to be critical to your overall marketing.

As you contemplate your future success with digital marketing, there are a few key considerations to bear in mind. First, maybe you've gotten this far and you look back at the cover of the book. Or you looked back at the title of the book and realized there is nothing easy about what you've done so far. What I can tell you is that everything you've learned to this point is the foundation to the big, beautiful home you're about to build. Going through these exercises annually and thinking about strategy differently will help you build new behaviors and create new actions. It's also going to make your marketing more effective and more efficient. In other words, you'll be focusing on quality over quantity, Your marketing will feel as though it's mission driven and purposeful and those in your organization will start to see marketing as more of an asset than a liability.

When we delve into the next section, focused on content, you'll find that marketing feels less stressful, more manageable, and even enjoyable again. However, reaching this point does require time, effort, and initially, what may seem like grunt work. But trust me, it’s all worth it.

SECTION 2

CONTENT