CHAPTER 6

# CONTENT EXPLAINED (DIFFERENTLY)

So often when we are talking about content the first thing that comes to mind is a photo or video, but the conversation around content, content strategy, or posting is so much deeper. Before you even begin to create content it's important to understand what content pillars are.

For a moment, I want you to think about the four legs of a chair. These are the pillars that keep the chair stable. While we can argue that most chairs could function on three or more legs, four seems to be the perfect number.  No different in your marketing, you really only need two - three, four (at the most) core topics or themes that your brand can consistently talk about and in many cases, less is more. These pillars should reflect your brand's mission, values and more importantly the interests of your target market.

If your company creates killer content and possibly even decent engagement rates, but yet it's not translating to any sort of momentum let alone conversions, it's likely that you're creating content without any sort of strategy and likely without content pillars. Let’s think about this for a moment. I want you to envision three converging circles like what’s below. One circle represents your company (brand). This could also include values, beliefs, solutions, products, etc. In the second circle, you have your target audience, their pain points, and what they care about. The third and least important is your industry. It’s important to be in tune with what’s happening in your industry, competitors, technology, and trends. Don’t forget that you could have multiple audiences. I don’t just want these circles to touch, I want them to overlap. It’s unlikely there will be 100% overlap. However, a mere 20% - 25% is enough for your followers and prospects to generate an affinity for your business and or it’s offerings. In fact, that is where the real magic is located. This is where many marketers create their pillar content - It’s likely what these individuals care about, and it’s attaching their problems to your solutions or helping identify a solution.

Earlier I talked above evoking a feeling or emotion. This is where it’s critical to incorporate mission centered initiatives, company values, culture, and people. What I am getting at is that all of these ideas help humanize your brand and create more opportunity for followers and prospective clients to build an affinity with your business.

Oftentimes, when I'm having this conversation, businesses get stuck or hung up on choosing just three or four content pillars. However, those content pillars can and should evolve with your business. They should naturally change quarter to quarter. Businesses of all kinds have seasonality. There are bound to be times when things are busy or slow. There are also likely to be new initiatives that come and go within different departments of the company. If marketing isn't operating in a silo, your goals and objectives will see subtle evolutions quarter to quarter and from year to year.

Pillar (Marco) Content

Traditionally pillar content, also known as cornerstone content, was designed to build trust and authority as well as get found in search engines. It gets that name because of its importance to your business.

However, pillar content also tends to be more comprehensive, therefore long format. Years ago, this phrase started out as a reference to blog posts and quickly transitioned into podcasts, and videos. It can also include infographics, keynote speeches, emails, email newsletters, eBooks, and more. Gary Vaynerchuk made his name by creating a daily wine vlog.

Pillar content could be offering an in-depth analysis or presenting comprehensive insights while addressing broader topics (like the use of AI in social media). This not only demonstrates your knowledge, experience, and passion for a subject, it can position you and your company as a thought leader. When that pillar content is backed by data, case studies, and accomplishments, it garners credibility. However, just because you consider it pillar content doesn’t mean it has value. It’s important that at the marco level this is a reservoir of value because, it can serve other purposes.

For clarification, when I say long format, I’m referring to an article that is 1,500 words or more. It could also be a video or podcast that is ten minutes or longer. Note, that definitions of length (time) vary.